Add paragraph on open science, reproducibility to intro (#279)
AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-manuscript: content/02.introduction.md

> <!--TODO: Now that this introduction is longer, would we consider using the same citations to refer to the five FDA-approved drugs without listing them all out?-->

Author: We've added to the intro without subtracting. Is this a place where we can subtract?

Author: I just added this TODO. My point is _not_ to cut "Within the last 20 years, the FDA has approved only five drugs for the treatment of pediatric brain tumors" which addresses your point in my opinion:

> I do _not_ think we should cut this section, as it is the major reason for requiring continued research on pediatric brain tumors (pediatric cancer in general) - we need more approved and effective therapies for these kids.

Is there anything in the rest of the paper that benefits from having the specific drugs and the labeled indications?

Reviewer: Oh! We don't refer back to these, but we can in the discussion, since we bring up PD-1 and talk about MMR-deficient tumors, but generally if I was a reviewer, I would like to know if so few drugs were approved, what were they and it is good to not have to make the reader look up the many links to try to figure out 1) which cancers have had new therapies approved (notice no HGG/ATRT, etc - with the worst prognoses) and 2) what types of drugs have shown some efficacy, and can this work either provide more types of tumors which can be susceptible to those drugs or can we build upon this (eg if immunotherapy worked in X, maybe we can find another type of immunotherapy to work for another subtype or a related but not the same cancer type). I think I would feel differently if we had _many_ drugs approved and can link to some comprehensive website.

Author: To reiterate what the TODO says: You'd leave in the citations in that scenario, so someone who would want to examine the links could do that relatively easily.

I think part of my argument is that the reader (or reviewer) that would look this information up might already know some or most of that information because of their own domain expertise. 

If you don't know this information because of your own domain expertise, the list might not be enough to connect the dots re: "notice no HGG/ATRT" and your points about immunotherapy.

It could be at once too much and too little information depending on your background.

Reviewer: >It could be at once too much and too little information depending on your background. 

:) I think you can say this about any introduction written in cancer? 

>If you don't know this information because of your own domain expertise, the list might not be enough to connect the dots re: "notice no HGG/ATRT" and your points about immunotherapy.

This is why I suggested we can bring this back to the discussion and connect more dots. 

This part was already reviewed by two neuro-onc clinicians (Peter Madsen on github and Cassie Kline via slack convo), so my suggestion would be that I can add more info to the discussion and we can see what the domain experts think. It is possible they may want even more biology or more dramatic calls to action - I tried to keep it concise while still being firm as I would in a grant, that this is an urgent research/clinical problem and this is part of why. I think we need to balance and draw in people from all walks - we want the clinicians to read this and see how great what we have done is without losing them on technical aspects. We want technical people to be drawn in to see that they can help solve critical problems, and we want advocates to see that we are using this data openly and to further research for all kids.

This is, in part, due to pharmaceutical company priorities and concerns regarding toxicity, making it challenging for researchers to obtain to new therapeutic agents for pediatric clinical trials.
Critically, as of August 18, 2020, an amendment to the Pediatric Research Equity Act called the "Research to Accelerate Cures and Equity (RACE) for Children Act" mandates that all new adult oncology drugs also be tested in children when the molecular targets are relevant to a particular childhood cancer.

> This regulatory change is poised to accelerate identification of novel and effective therapeutic for pediatric diseases with putative molecular targets that have otherwise been overlooked.

Author: Similar to another comment about making a sentence more explicit. The implications in the context of this intro are: 

* The RACE act is relevant when there are putative molecular targets in pediatric disease that are similar or related to targets of adult oncology drugs.
* We find putative molecular targets with the kinds of characterizations we perform in this work.

If you're a reader that's interested in open science but has different domain expertise (and hopefully we have some of those), it's helpful if we make this as clear as possible in my opinion.

I am not necessarily attached to the specific wording I've included, though.

Author: I added "with putative molecular targets" to this sentence, but I will push another wording shortly.

> To leverage diverse scientific and analytical expertise to analyze the PBTA data, we created an open science model and incorporated features, such as analytical code review [@doi:10.1093/aje/kwab092; @doi:10.7287/peerj.preprints.3210v1] and continuous integration to test data and code [@doi:10.1038/nbt.3780; @doi:10.7287/peerj.preprints.3210v1], to improve reproducibility throughout the life cycle of our project, termed OpenPBTA.

Author: I was not really aware of anything explicitly talking about _just_ using CI. But I've added some citations for related ideas, along with "to test data and code." 

From [Parker 2017](https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.preprints.3210v1), on testing your data:

> The same can be said for data testing. Almost always, by the time a data analyst
> has gotten to the point of performing an analysis, she has made the assumption
> that the data are not corrupted, usually by inspecting the data or a subset of the
> data manually. A negative value for a weight measurement, for example, would
> immediately signal to the analyst that she should figure out what “went wrong”.
> Assertive testing means establishing these quality-control checks – usually based
> on past knowledge of possible corruptions of the data – and halting an analysis
> if the quality-control checks are not passed, so the analyst can investigate and
> hopefully fix (or at least account for) the problem. This could take the form
> of throwing an error in the analysis script, or displaying an error within the
> analysis document.

That's _part of_ what we've set up is doing for sure, but not the complete picture. When we cut a new release and therefore create new testing data, it does let us check for any regressions in the data that are able to be caught in CI (and I feel like that's been our experience in practice with earlier releases).

Then there's the concept of "continuous analysis" in [Beaulieu-Jones and Greene](https://doi.org/10.1038%2Fnbt.3780), but we're not going _quite that far_. The underlying infrastructure (i.e., continuous integration) is shared between that concept and what we've done; both serve as tests to make sure the code still runs on the data for the project.

We anticipated that a model of open collaboration would enhance the value of our effort to the pediatric brain tumor research community. 

> Openly sharing data and code in real time allows others to build upon our work more rapidly, and publications that include data and code sharing may have a greater impact [@doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0000308; @doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1008867].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Openly sharing data and code in real time allows others to build upon our work more rapidly, and publications that include data and code sharing may have a greater impact [@doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0000308; @doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1008867].
```
 
Is this a _may_ or it it _more likely to have_ a greater impact. I think using something along the lines of the latter is a bit more convincing, but open to wording here.

Author: It depends on what we mean by "greater impact" I suppose. If someone makes their data publicly available, they are more likely to get cited (per `@doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0000308`). Code sharing means something is more transparent and can be built upon (per the editorial `@@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1008867`). So that's to say – there's evidence that data sharing results in more citations and it makes intuitive sense that sharing code means it can be used for other applications, but I don't think that's been studied.

For what it's worth, we're going to tell people that we made an impact on other projects in the discussion!

Here, we present a comprehensive, collaborative, open genomic analysis of nearly 2,000 tumor specimens and 38 cell lines, comprised of 59 distinct brain tumor histologies from 943 patients. 

> These analyses can be used to support the RACE Act in rational clinical trial design to include children with brain tumors.

Author: I wanted to make this sentence a little more explicit. It would not surprise me if a PR reviewer says, "TMB calculation code, etc. is not limited to brain tumors." This change reads better in my opinion.

Limited access to tissue to develop patient-derived cell lines and mouse models has been a barrier to research. 
Furthermore, the incidence of any single brain tumor molecular subtype is relatively low due to the rarity of pediatric tumors in general. 
To address these long-standing barriers, multiple national and international consortia have come together to collaboratively share specimens and data to accelerate breakthroughs and clinical translation.
One such effort lead to the creation of the Pediatric Brain Tumor Atlas (PBTA).

Just as cooperation is required for the sharing of specimens and data, rigorous analysis of pediatric brain tumor data requires collaboration, as no one individual researcher or research group is best positioned to perform every analysis needed.
To leverage diverse expertise, we used an open science model, with features regarded to improve reproducibility of computational research such as analytical code review [@doi:10.1093/aje/kwab092; @doi:10.7287/peerj.preprints.3210v1], throughout the life cycle of our project analyzing PBTA data.

> We anticipated that working in the open would enhance the value of our effort to the pediatric brain tumor research community – works that include data and code sharing may have a greater impact [@doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0000308; @doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1008867] – and increase efficiency because others would not need to wait until after publication to build on our work.

Reviewer 2: I'm suggesting an alternative here, breaking this into two separates sentences to try to avoid the challenges of splicing. 
```suggestion
We anticipated that a model of open collaboration would enhance the value of our effort to the pediatric brain tumor research community. 
Openly sharing data and code in real time allows others to quickly build upon our work rapidly, and publications that include data and code sharing may have a greater impact [@doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0000308; @doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1008867].
```
